---
title: Demystifying OAuth and RESTful APIs
author: Daniel McNeela
layout: home_page
categories: compsci
preview_img: images/oauth.png
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
tags: Web APIs
---
First, some prequisite material.
\\
\\
A  Uniform Resource Identifier is, as the name indicates, an identifier that adheres to a uniform, standardized format and identifies resources on a (often remote) machine. URIs are the most general resource specifiers and they contain other, stricter subsets of identifiers such as URLs (Uniform Resource Locators and Uniform Resource Names). URLs are a subset of URIs in that they specify the *access protocol* used when looking up a resource by a URI, i.e. http:// or ftp://
<!--more-->
\\
\\
OAuth provides a way for a 3rd-party application to interface with private user account data with the application that hosts that data without revealing private user login information to the 3rd-party app. The precursor to OAuth was a service called Basic Auth that was less secure and more invasive.
\\
\\
OAuth now has myriad implementations across numerous platforms and languages. It was originally designed to be a protocol, but has since morphed into a general framework by which authorizations can be obtained.

Typical terminology used in an OAuth context:
\\
\\
**Resource Owner:** the person seeking to allow access to an otherwise protected resource \\
**Client**: The 3rd-party application seeking access to the resources owned by the resource owner. \\
**Authorization Server:** The entity that maintains the credentials of the resource owner and has the power to grant/rescind access to the client. \\
**Resource Server**: The server where the sought after resources are hosted.

More to follow soon!